README.md, before:

Samurai AI
Smart AI Study Planner for Students

Samurai AI helps students fight procrastination by providing:

Personalized study schedules

Predictions of the most productive study times

Deadline reminders and balanced workload

Secure Google Login (Microsoft Teams integration planned, pending IT admin approval)

Insights on study habits, task progress, and time management

This project is designed for a competition where teams create an AI-powered system to track homework, organize tasks, and provide useful analytics to improve academic success.

Key Features
Feature	Description
Study Schedule Generation	AI suggests when to study each assignment
Workload Prediction	Tracks intensity to avoid overload
Habit-Based Optimization	Learns when the student performs best
Google Login	Smooth and secure authentication
Task Organization	Categorize tasks by course, priority and deadlines
Reminder System	Alerts for upcoming and overdue tasks
Progress Analytics	XP, streaks, and productivity insights

## Tech Stack
- Python + Flask
- SQLite database
- JavaScript frontend
- Hugging Face optional for AI

## Installation
git clone <your repo link>
cd study-planner
pip install -r requirements.txt
python init_db.py
python app.py

Then visit: http://127.0.0.1:5000/

## Preview of functions

https://go.screenpal.com/watch/cTXiXbnFaBI

## Created By
Arina Shevchuk
Majd Kalakh
Nawras Abualhalawuh

Commit message:

Update README with .env file instructions
Added instructions for creating a .env file with API key.

README.md, after:

Samurai AI
Smart AI Study Planner for Students

Samurai AI helps students fight procrastination by providing:

Personalized study schedules

Predictions of the most productive study times

Deadline reminders and balanced workload

Secure Google Login (Microsoft Teams integration planned, pending IT admin approval)

Insights on study habits, task progress, and time management

This project is designed for a competition where teams create an AI-powered system to track homework, organize tasks, and provide useful analytics to improve academic success.

Key Features
Feature	Description
Study Schedule Generation	AI suggests when to study each assignment
Workload Prediction	Tracks intensity to avoid overload
Habit-Based Optimization	Learns when the student performs best
Google Login	Smooth and secure authentication
Task Organization	Categorize tasks by course, priority and deadlines
Reminder System	Alerts for upcoming and overdue tasks
Progress Analytics	XP, streaks, and productivity insights

## Tech Stack
- Python + Flask
- SQLite database
- JavaScript frontend
- Hugging Face optional for AI

## Installation
git clone <your repo link>
cd study-planner
pip install -r requirements.txt
Create a .env file in the project root with:
API_KEY=your_api_key_here
python init_db.py
python app.py

Then visit: http://127.0.0.1:5000/

## Preview of functions

https://go.screenpal.com/watch/cTXiXbnFaBI

## Created By
Arina Shevchuk
Majd Kalakh
Nawras Abualhalawuh
